Hello everyone and
welcome to Java fundamentals.
Java is one of the most popular
programming languages in the world,
especially for enterprise applications.
So you're making a good investment
by learning this today.
I am Angie Jones,
I am certified Java programmer.
I've been coding in Java since its
very early days over 20 years now.
And I've taught many workshops and
courses and
even classes at
the collegiate level in Java.
And I am also a Java champion.
So this should be fun, right?
All right, so
we wanna go ahead and get set up.
If you haven't already, install IntelliJ,
the community edition, and
let me show you where that is.
So you're gonna go to
jetbrains.com/idea/download.
And you'll see three operating system
choices, Windows, Mac, or Linux.
Choose your operating system,
in this community edition is
the free open source version.
So that's the one you wanna download.
If you already have IntelliJ Ultimate,
or you wanna use a different IDE,
Eclipse, or VS Code or anything like that,
that's totally fine, okay?
But this is what we'll be using today.
After you download that,
go ahead and run the installer.
It's pretty quick to install.
And then I'm gonna go inside of here, so
I've already installed it,
I'm gonna say I want a new project
And the type, we're gonna choose is Maven,
so we're gonna do a Maven project.
And there's a little prompt up top
to create a general Maven project.
Go to the New Project page.
Has less options, so I'm just gonna
go there, makes my life easier.
And let's go ahead and make a new project.
You can call this whatever you wanna
call it, I'll just call it java_course.
And you can put this anywhere
you want on your computer, so
I'll just say frontend_masters.
That's my location.
You don't have to click
this Create Git repository.
I will because I'll go ahead and
commit any changes that I'm doing in
the course so that you can download them.
And you want your Language to be Java,
Build system, Maven, for
the JDK, you want Java 17 or later.
I already have openjdk-17.
If you don't have something that's 17 or
later,
you can just choose this
Download JDK option.
And then that'll show you
a bunch of different options.
I recommend the Oracle OpenJDK.
So that's the open source version of Java.
Again, I'm gonna use 17, but
you can use anything 17 or later, okay?
And we'll just say Create.